# Big-Data-CaseStudy
Click Stream Web Analytics Using Hadoop, Hive and PySpark


# Purpose:

Generate various analytics for web users through click stream web data. On a web site, click stream analysis is the process of collecting, analysing, and reporting aggregate data about which pages visitors visit (navigation data from login to logout)

# Inputs:

The input would be the click stream data generated by java tool in the JSON format. Number of records should be at least 1 Lakh.

# Steps:

· The data can be generated through a Java program that generates data in JSON format in a file.

· The above raw data would be stored in Hive and partitioned and bucketed on appropriate data fields.

· Hive should use MySQL Meta store.

· Perform analysis on the data stored in Hive tables, the analysis jobs should have at least one hive, one MR job and one spark job.

· Schedule the process of data generation, archiving older data and running analysis jobs, through any appropriate mechanism (Cron job, Oozie work flow, Spring batch etc.).

· Store the results of analysis jobs in Hive tables.

· Visualise the analytical results (read from Hive and show data in excel or any other visulization tool)

# Analytics:

· Generate following analytics/reports using above data:

· Most active users.

· Location wise traffic analysis

· Day wise traffic analysis

# Ecommerce Analytics

· User item visit analysis.

· Users purchase/shopping cart analysis.

· Perform other appropriate ecommerce analytics base on the data.

# Deliverables

· Design document with architecture and table details:

· Case study presentation:

· Code Artifacts:

· Output report:

# Schema

The data generation schema

· userID – Unique id of the user

· url -- to keep track of user activity

· action (optional)-- to keep track of action performed while performing the cart activity

Can be covered as part of url or

Possible actions : view , addtocart , removefromcart , purchase etc location – to keep track of the location of the user

· logTime – to keep track of the time when the user logged in

· payment_method – to keep track of the payment method opted by user

· logDate – to keep track of the date when the user logged in

· sessionId – Session id of user

For e.g.

{

"userID":"Marvin Eriksen Sr.",

"location":"Virginia",

"sessionId":"Session_clickShop15970860614820",

"url":"http://www.shop.com/purchased/item?Small Bronze Chair",

"logTime":"2020-08-11 00:31:01.485",

"payment_method":"Credit Card",

"logDate":"2020-08-11"

} 
